So, guys, before proceeding further to discuss the design and implementation of deal threads, it
is important that we understand the concept of offset and see structures.
So you may already be familiar with this, so you can simply skim through this lecture.
And if you are not familiar, then this lecture will be very useful to you.
So let us start with the question, right, to see Macroom, which computes the offset of a given field
in a given structure.
So let us discuss this with the help of an example.
For example, suppose you have the following structure which has the following four fields.
Now, if you create an object of this structure using Mallak, then the memory footprint of object of
this structure and the memory would look something like this.
You can see that the name field is 30 bytes long, whereas the cellular field is four bytes long.
So we assume that unsigned int is four bytes.
Similarly, the designation is also 30 bytes long and the employee irony is again for bytes long.
So you can see the following table shows the size of each field as well as the offset of each field
of this structure.
So you can see that the second column represents the size of each field, which I have already shown
you.
The offset of each field is actually the number of whites.
That particular field is away from the start of the object.
For example, suppose.
The second field that is the Selvi field is 30 miles away from the start of this object.
So, for example, suppose the starting address of this object is 1000, right?
So the starting bite of the Sally Field will be 1038 wide, right.
So the offset of the Sally Field is the number of white.
This field is away from the start of the object.
So the offset of the Sally Field is 30 whites.
Right.
And it is obvious that the offset of the first field of the structure is always zero.
Similarly, the offset of the field designation is three, four bytes and the offset of the field and
it will going to be 64 bytes.
Now, the question is that that you need to write a generic macro which computes the offset of a given
field in a C structure.
So now you can post a video here and attempt to write a macro by yourself.
So such a macro can be written as follows.
Right, so let the macro be offset off.
The first argument to the macro is the name of the structure and the second argument to the macro is
one of the field of this is structure.
And the definition of this macro simply computes the offset of a given field in a given a structure.
Now, it is something specific to the language and you need to understand it, that why it computes
the offset of this field.
So how are you going to use this macro?
This macro can be used for any structure and for any field.
So this macro should be used as follows.
Just right off set off.
That is invocation of this macro boss, the structure name, which is employing the Scutti and passed
the name of one of the field of this structure.
So let's say employ idee.
So this macro will actually return the offset of the employee ID field of this, a structure that does
this will going to return value equal to sixty four.
In fact, it is a good interview question that you are asked to write such a macro in C or C++.
So we have a small assignment attached to this lecture.
Kindly do that assignment and then proceed further.
So, guys, in order to practice the concept of offset, we have a small exercise in this lecture.
So in this exercise, we just need to write the implementation of this function that does this function.
Simply ask you to print the employee details.
Now, you can see on the right hand side, I have defined the structure of employing the school team.
You can see that the first four fields of this employer structure are pretty much obvious.
The last field of this structure is actually a field of type team.
Right.
So Geelhoed is simply one of the member of this structure employer.
Now, you can see that in this exercise, we have a pointer to the object of type emploi in the scooty,
right?
So just assume that we have a pointer which points to the object of type apply.
And the second line, we are simply invoking a function which should print the employee details, but
notice that the argument to this function is actually the address of the last member of this employee
structure.
That is the address of this G.A. So you have to provide the implementation of this function, which
actually prints the rest of the four fields of this employee structure that is named Salvy designation
and Employee ID.
The argument to this function is the address of the last field of this structure imply.
So here I am, providing you a hint that if you notice the memory footprint of the object of type,
Emploi would look something like this.
Now, in this function, the argument that is parsed is the address of G.A., which is one of the member
of the structure employed right now.
You need to print name, cell designation and employee ID of this object.
So in order to print these details, what you need is a pointer to the start of the object employment.
So all you need to do here is to somehow get an address which points to the start of the object, implying
that you are given this address and you need to obtain this address.
So simply from this address, you need to subtract the offset of Geelhoed in order to obtain the starting
address of this object, implying once you get the starting address that you can easily print all the
employee details as usual.
I have provided a solution to this exercise as an assignment to this lecture.